Title: RingZer0team CTF - Challenge 148
Author: Eric Light
Tags: Security, Tech, RingZer0Team, Python
Date: 2017-05-27

There are a bunch of fantastic Capture The Flag security challenges on [RingZer0Team.com](https://www.ringzer0team.com).  I've been working through some of these for a wee while now, and with the [New Zealand Cyber Security Challenge](https://www.cybersecuritychallenge.org.nz/) coming up again soon, I thought I'd get back into some of them.

Challenge 148 ("Sysadmin Linux Level 2") is one of a series of challenges where you're trying to breach the security of a Linux system.  I actually finished most of these last year, but I wanted to finish my last two.  Of course, to get to the last two stages, you need to use the flags from the _previous_ stages.  So I'm revisiting them.

We start by SSH'ing into a particular user account on the ringzer0team server:

   You have mail.
   Last login: Thu Apr 27 02:52:40 2017 from <somewhere>
   morpheus@forensics:~$ 

There's only one file in the home folder, and I can't read it.  There's a /home/trinity folder with full read access, but also nothing legible.

Running ps aux reveals what appears to be Trinity's password:

   root      3241  0.0  0.0   4188   572 ?        S    Jan14   1:44 /bin/sh /root/backup.sh -u trinity -p Flag-<redacted>

Aha, and /etc/fstab contains what appears to be The Architect's password, in base64:

   /dev/sr0        /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
   /dev/fd0        /media/floppy0  auto    rw,user,noauto  0       0
   #//TheMAtrix/phone  /media/Matrix  cifs  username=architect,password=$(base64 -d "<redacted>"),iocharset=utf8,sec=ntlm  0  0

Great!  Now I can carry on to my *actual* goal, which was to nail challenge 91 ("Sysadmin Linux Level 7")!
