Title: RingZer0team CTF - Challenges 86, 87, and 88
Author: Eric Light
Tags: Security, Tech, RingZer0Team
Date: 2017-07-13

There are a bunch of fantastic Capture The Flag security challenges on [RingZer0Team.com](https://www.ringzer0team.com).  I've been working through some of these for a wee while now, and with the [New Zealand Cyber Security Challenge](https://www.cybersecuritychallenge.org.nz/) coming up again soon, I thought I'd get back into some of them.

Challenge 86 ("1/3 Do not waste the environment", under the Forsensic Challenges) is one of a series of challenges where you need to dig through some provided data to find the flag.

I started by downloading the 'forensic bundle', which was just a large zip file.  The first challenge was to figure out the contents of that zip file.  The file name was just a jumble of characters, and there was no extension.  Running `file` on it just returned the file type "Data"... not very enlightening, but `head` uncovered the string "VBOX" in the file... okay, it's VirtualBox file.

Because I didn't have Virtualbox installed, I spent a bit of time digging through the actual Vbox file itself, trying to see if there's a flag already in there.  I used `strings | egrep -i flag-....`, to try to find any flags embedded in the file itself.  I didn't find any flags, but I did discover that the computer name itself is "FLAG-PC".  Very clever.  :-|

### Update, many hours later:

Okay this totally cooked my bacon.  After hours of playing with VirtualBox and playing with files, I finally gave up and Googled the name of the downloaded file.

Turns out I was _REALLY_ close.  The flag IS embedded in the actual file itself, but the format is different for the first time.  The correct grep string would have been `egrep -i '.?f.?l.?a.?g.?-'`.

Real frustrated by how close I was, I'll have to expand my searches in the future.  Hat-tip to [@professormahi](https://twitter.com/professormahi) and his [GitHub](https://github.com/professormahi/CTF/tree/master/ringzer0team/Forensics/1-3%20Do%20not%20waste%20the%20enviroment) page.

Once I understood that, I also discovered the flag for challenge 87 ("2/3 Did you see my desktop?"), in the same manner.

I haven't managed to get the flag for Challenge 88 ("3/3 Suspicious Account Password") yet, but I do know what it is.  I can see (by grepping for "Visited") a bunch of visits to <http://www.forensicswiki.org/wiki/Tools:Memory_Imaging>... this thing is a memory dump.  That explains now why it doesn't work as a VirtualBox disk.

Next time I sit down here, I'll find visit Forensics Wiki, and start digging through the memory dump for the passwords.

### Update two

I decided not to put this up as a separate post, because once I knew what I was looking at, it was pretty easy.  Again though, I relied on @professormahi's work - but now thanks to him I have a little bit of experience with [Volatility](https://www.volatilityfoundation.org/)!

First, we get Volatility to scan the image and see what it's dealing with:

	$ volatility -f vm.vmdk imageinfo
	Volatility Foundation Volatility Framework 2.6
	INFO    : volatility.debug    : Determining profile based on KDBG search...
	          Suggested Profile(s) : Win7SP1x86_23418, Win7SP0x86, Win7SP1x86
	                     AS Layer1 : IA32PagedMemory (Kernel AS)
	                     AS Layer2 : FileAddressSpace (/home/eric/Downloads/86/vm.vmdk)
	                      PAE type : No PAE
	                           DTB : 0x185000L
	                          KDBG : 0x82920be8L
	          Number of Processors : 1
	     Image Type (Service Pack) : 0
	                KPCR for CPU 0 : 0x82921c00L
	             KUSER_SHARED_DATA : 0xffdf0000L
	           Image date and time : 2014-03-09 20:57:55 UTC+0000
	     Image local date and time : 2014-03-09 13:57:55 -0700

Now, knowing the profile that we need to use, we can use it to just... dump the password table:

	$ volatility -f vm.vmdk --profile Win7SP1x86 hashdump
	Volatility Foundation Volatility Framework 2.6
	Administrator:500:aad3b435b51404eeaad3b435b51404ee:31d6cfe0d16ae931b73c59d7e0c089c0:::
	Guest:501:aad3b435b51404eeaad3b435b51404ee:31d6cfe0d16ae931b73c59d7e0c089c0:::
	flag:1000:aad3b435b51404eeaad3b435b51404ee:3008c87294511142799dca1191e69a0f:::

And then, we grab that NTLM hash and pop it into an online NTLM decryptor service, and we're away!
